# Physicians-data-analysis
A physician is a general term for a doctor who has earned a medical degree. Physicians work to maintain, promote, and restore health by studying, diagnosing, and treating injuries and diseases(What Is a Physician?, 2020). The relationship between public health and wealth and poverty is always a prevailing controversial topic even before the prevalence of Covid-19. Some argue that wealth inequality is a vital public health issue. This is a long-standing social dilemma waiting to be solved. Meanwhile, the gap between wealth and poverty can lead to inequalities in other areas like education and security levels. In this case study, we proposed a regression model to predict the number of practicing physicians based on the data set including the selected county demographic information in the most populous counties from 1990 to 1992. Through the rich diversity of variables provided to us, we are able to analyze how some of the predictors contribute to distinct medical resources of each county, namely active physicians.

## About the data set
Currently there are 17 columns: "ID", "county", "state", "land.area", "total.population", "population%(18-24)", "population%(65+)", "active.physicians", "hospital.beds", "crimes", "high.school%", "bachelor%", "below.poverty.level%", "unemployment%", "percent.capita.Income", "total.personal.income", "geographic.region". Our group started the model selection process by cleaning up the CDI dataset, then we did the model selection to drop the insignificant predictors and the highly correlated predictors. In the end, we performed diagnostics and Box-Cox transformation on our model.

#### *Contributors: Jiyang Xu, Bingheng Li, Chengbo Li
